Hey, YouTube.
Hey, Brett.
>> Hey, Michael.
>> Hey.
So cool to be here with you and chatting.
And for those of you watching live, please throw your thoughts and comments into the
live chat, and we'll try to make that part of the show.
If you're watching afterwards, appreciate that as well.
But sorry, no chat.
No time travel for you.
But thank you anyway.
All right.
Let's kick this off.
Brett, welcome to Talk Python to Me.
>> Great.
Yeah, thanks, Michael.
Glad to be here.
I'm glad to have you here.
So many interesting things to cover on the show.
I'm really, really excited.
Let's start with the excitement, I guess, of saying we're both
excited about Mac computers.
And it's about, I guess, a 1/3, 1/3, 1/3 split, maybe not
quite that many for Mac developers in the Python space.
But there's a lot of people who write code either on a Mac
or for people who use a Mac,
and it would be nice to make a little bit more
of a native thing with Python.
And so we're gonna talk about this really awesome app
that you wrote.
And here we are because of a tweet follow up
or the Python Byte Show, you sent a really cool tweet.
And I'm like, this is amazing, we have to talk about this.
And so we're gonna talk about building Mac apps with Python,
like native apps that go into the doc,
not just something that could run a script,
but a thing that you could get a regular user
to believe is an app and they will call it an app.
And the other is you also happen to work
for the US Space Force, which is very interesting.
So we'll touch on that maybe a little bit at the end.
There's some programming tie-ins as well, right?
- Yeah, yeah, definitely.
Sounds good.
- Awesome.
Well, again, happy to have you here.
Before we get into that though,
let's start with your story.
How'd you get into programming Python?
Sure.
Yeah.
So I've been, I'm a hobbyist programmer, self-taught, but I've been programming
since I was eight years old and roughly around 1981, my dad brought home a TRS
80 model three from Radio Shack.
It was one of those all in ones.
It's a 12 inch black and white screen built in keyboard.
And it had a five and a quarter inch floppy, which was, was a
pretty big deal for those days.
It's a big deal.
I was going to have a cassette player or did it have a floppy?
It did not.
it had the floppy actually built into the consoles and all in one.
And tell us you're like, yeah, where's your cassette player? No, no, let me show
you. It's this huge thing. Yeah. And I don't remember how much it was, but it
was that the floppy disk held, but it was like 80 K or something. It was a lot
of, it was a lot for back then. he had it for work, but I was, I just was
fascinated by it. I thought, you know, I love the idea that you can, this
machine can respond to what I tell it to do and do something completely
different. And so I got into programming. He taught me a
little bit of basic it came with basic candy basic installed on
there. I got into that a little bit. And then from there, I
moved into Commodore 64 later, and IBM PC and then eventually
found my way to the Mac. And just yeah, I've been using the
Mac for a long time. I found Python about four years ago.
I've used a number of different languages through the years.
probably most of the work I've done was in Pearl. A lot of Fortran in college. I'm an engineer by
trade. And back then we, of course, Fortran, in fact, that program Fortran on the VACs
back in the day. Cool. Like what type of engineering? Astronautical engineering.
So everything dealing with space, satellites, rockets, spacecraft.
But we did a lot of Fortran. But you know, I taught myself Perl along the way. And I used
that for years. That was sort of my go to anytime I needed to get something done. And then I remember
a few years ago, reading an article about Python, it was it was the up and coming thing. And so I
thought, well, let me give this a try. So I started playing around with it. And I've done almost
exclusively Python since then. It's been a lot of fun. Cool. So once you found it, you're like,
all right, this is this place, I feel comfortable in this place in this language. And I wanted to
do more and just stuck with it. Yeah, it's, you know, it, it's a easy language to learn, right.
But it grows with you is what I found with Python. And it, you know, you can obviously build
industrial grade apps with Python, but it's really easy to start out to and I will say, I just I
I actually first came across Python, oh, quite a few years ago in the late
nineties when I, when I discovered Pearl and I'd come from a C and Fortran
background, and I remember looking at this whole white space thing and thinking,
there's no way that I can program with that.
I need, I need the curly braces.
I need the semi-colon.
Yeah.
And now, you know, to be fair back then, you know, on a windows PC programming,
it was literally with notepad, right?
There was, there were, there wasn't black.
There weren't any formatters, any of that kind of stuff.
So, WhiteSpace was hard actually getting it right.
But once I got over that,
I actually really liked the WhiteSpace now.
I think it makes the code a lot easier to read and cleaner.
And I really have enjoyed working with Python.
- Cool, yeah, the WhiteSpace,
I do feel like there's a certain number of people
that just look at it and go, "Nope, next language."
What else might I learn today?
That one's out.
But it really is something that it seems like it's a big deal.
And then you kind of work with it.
You're like, oh, especially now the tools are just
auto-indenting for you.
You know, you're like, oh, this is kind of--
it's just omnipresent, but you don't
have to think about it so much.
You know, you're cold, and you hit Enter,
and like, oh, I'm indented already.
That's cool.
Just keep typing, you know?
So, you know, very neat.
How about now?
What are you doing these days?
I mentioned something about the Space Force.
>>Yeah, so I work for the Space Force.
I'm actually an officer in the Space Force.
I've been a career Air Force officer.
I've been in the Air Force since 1995
as an astronomical engineer.
And then last year had an opportunity to transfer
from the Air Force into the Space Force.
And being an astronomical engineer
and a guy who's worked in space my whole career,
that was a no-brainer.
- Yeah, it seems like exactly that.
- That's exactly where I should be.
And so today I'm an officer in the Space Force
and my day job is I'm a chief engineer
for an organization called Space Systems Command, which
is part of the Space Force that develops and acquires
all of our new satellite systems, rocket systems,
ground systems, all of our networks and infrastructure,
that kind of thing.
So that's a lot of fun.
I get to do a lot of fun engineering in my day job
and get to do Python on the weekend.
Yeah.
Do you get to run any Python on any of the satellites?
I know that some of the satellites
controlled with Python, their API, not necessarily for the Space Force, but you know, like some
of the scientific ones.
Yeah.
So none of the systems that I've used are using Python to actually directly interact
with the satellite.
But we are using Python in a number of different places on some of the apps that we run that
help process data or analyze display data, do those kinds of things.
the data science dashboardy thing that happens to data
after it gets out of space.
- Yeah, exactly.
- Comes back, yeah.
Cool, well, that sounds like a super, super fun job.
And I guess, you know, I was talking to somebody
at a get together just earlier this week.
Everyone's kind of fascinated
that I can have a job that is podcasting.
They're like, "Okay, well,
who are you interviewing this week?"
So I'm gonna interview the guy who does cool Python stuff,
and he works at the Space Force.
And someone else is like, "Oh, that's amazing."
And then someone else is, "What's the Space Force?"
So maybe for those of us who don't know,
we know what the Air Force is.
What's the Space Force?
- Yeah, sure.
The Space Force is the newest of the military services.
We were established just in December of 2019
as sort of birthed out of the Air Force.
And so the initial people that came over to Space Force
came from the Air Force,
although we've now brought in people
from all the other services, Army, Marines, Navy,
to be part of Space Force,
people who transfer just like I did.
And the job of the Space Force is to organize, train,
and equip guardians, is what we call people
in the Space Force, to do space operations for the nation.
And so, you know, things like GPS, for example,
which I know everybody's familiar with.
If you pull out your phone and use Waze or a Maps app
or even do banking, which all relies on GPS timing signals.
Those kinds of things.
We even used GPS in a corn maze recently.
Yeah, so all of that is coming from a signal
from a satellite in space that is run by the Space Force.
And we do a lot of other things to weather,
missile warning, communications, remote sensing,
all sorts of different missions that the Space Force does.
But we do all of the.
The space systems, that support the rest of the services, you know,
communications, navigation, location, all those kinds of things.
That sounds fascinating.
And I suspect that many of these things were happening often under the air force
banner or some other, other banner, right?
Yeah.
And now it's just more formalized, right?
It exactly.
So the air force has been doing this mission for a long time.
In fact, the Air Force originally designed and launched the GPS constellation that is
still in operations today and is now run by the Space Force.
But what we found was that space was becoming more and more important.
You could certainly, everybody's familiar with what SpaceX and a lot of the other commercial
space companies are doing.
A lot of really exciting things going on, but a lot more happening in space.
The importance of space to our economy and our nation is increasing.
And quite frankly, the threat to all of that is increasing.
A number of other countries have paid a lot of attention to what we're doing in space
and they are actively working on ways to deny the US the ability to use some of those capabilities
if they want to.
We've seen some of that play out in things going on in Europe right now, in Ukraine,
for example.
So, because of the increased threat and the increase of importance of space
to our economy and our, and our nation, we, we decided that we really wanted.
A team that was focused only on space.
And that's all we did.
because for the air force, it was always, you know, an extra job in
addition to everything else that they're doing.
And so this, the only job space force has is.
Yeah.
Doing space operations for the country.
And so we have guardians, as I mentioned,
focused on doing that job day in and day out.
- Well, very cool.
It strikes me that this is one of the areas
of the defense and military industry
that is the least hands-on.
It's the most, you almost never get to interact
with things in space directly,
right, even with cameras necessarily, right?
And so it's a little bit different
than, you know, running, running over a hill or something.
It is different.
And, and, you know, let me, I, first, I just want to add that, that
anything I I'm, I'm excited about space force and happy to talk about it.
But anything I say is my opinion and not necessarily the opinion of the
space force, the department of defense.
yeah, but I will tell you, you know, you're right, Michael, that,
we, people that interact with the space domain as part of the space force,
except for the very small number of astronauts we have that work with NASA,
largely do that through a computer screen.
We do that through a piece of glass, a keyboard and a network.
And that makes the Space Force different than the other services,
as you alluded to.
But that also means that we really want a workforce that really understands that,
right that understands the technical domain.
That's really digitally fluent.
Space Force is really focused on building
digital service and having a
digitally native workforce that really
understands computers, understands
coding, understands
cloud infrastructures and you know, those
kinds of things, all the underlying technologies
that we need to do our job.
We're really focused on building a
workforce that understands those things.
Yeah, that's what I was hinting as I feel like
a lot of the coding skills are somewhat in the same realm
as the kind of things that you all need to do.
Probably just a ton of custom software as well.
>>Yeah, definitely.
We use a lot of commercial software,
but we also do a lot of our own custom software.
We have a couple of software factories
where we've got people from the Space Force Guardians
who actually write code for other Guardians
to use as part of their day job.
>>Nice.
Well, if we have some extra time at the end,
we'll come back to that.
But let's switch over to our main topic, I guess.
And let's start with the genesis of this idea.
And you created this project called Textinator.
And it's open source in Python, obviously,
which is why we're talking about it.
And I'll link to the GitHub repo.
And it says-- the about for it says,
simple macOS status bar, menu bar app
to automatically detect text in screenshots,
which is pretty awesome.
So it's one of those apps that is just an icon
in the upper right by the clock,
would be in the task bar, a little hidden down there.
If it was a Windows app, but it's a Mac app.
So it lives up in the menu bar alone.
And what does it do?
- So it's really simple.
If you take a screenshot, if Textinator is running
and you take a screenshot, it will search that screenshot
for any text that it finds in the screenshot
and copy that text to the clipboard.
That's all it does, super simple.
But, you know, a useful thing, if you've got,
trying to take a screenshot, there's text on the screen,
like on a link on a video or something,
and you can't copy and paste it,
all you gotta do is screenshot it
and Textinator will pick it up
and stick it on your clipboard.
- That's fantastic.
Does it automatically capture,
is it just constantly looking for screenshots
and then clipboard, you know, doing text recognition
and then clipboarding that?
Or do you have to trigger it?
- No, it'll do it all automatically.
And what it's doing is it's using
the Mac built in spotlight feature behind the scenes.
And basically it's a query
that's running in the background all the time.
And the query says, anytime there's a new screenshot,
send me an alert.
And then so when it gets that alert from the operating system
that there's a new screenshot,
then it does the processing
and copies everything to the clipboard.
Otherwise it's just sitting there
waiting for an alert to pop up.
- Yeah, fantastic.
I said this show sort of originated from a tweet.
Just as a user, I talked about this app called TextSniper,
which I thought was pretty cool in the Mac App Store
that lets you kind of screenshot an area of text
and will capture it.
It costs money and you got to get it
at the app store and so on.
And you said in your tweet said,
"That's a really cool idea."
And it inspired me to create Textinator.
I love that name as well.
So, and I just think it's fascinating.
You were able to knock this out pretty quickly in Python.
- Yeah, the initial, it's grown a little bit
'cause I've tried to put a few bells and whistles on it,
But the initial, I knocked it out and, you know, Saturday afternoon, the initial
capability, it was, you know, like 300 lines of code, and fairly simple.
And it was fairly simple because.
I don't have to do all the hard work.
I'm calling Mac framework, API calls that are built into the Mac to do
the, do the hard work of, Hey, find a screenshot, you know, detect the text,
put the text on the clipboard, those kinds of things.
And so it was actually fairly easy to throw together.
And then I'm using another Python package called rumps
that it does all the heavy lifting of actually,
hey, putting an app into the menu bar with an icon
and all those kinds of things.
- Rumps is fantastic.
It has such a ridiculous name,
but it's so easy to build Mac apps with.
- Yeah, I've used it for quite a few different things.
I've got a couple apps running right now on my Mac
that I use every day that I built out of Python and Rumps.
It's a really useful tool.
- That's cool.
I'm starting to think of more that maybe I should create.
By the way, I have one as well,
and maybe I'll talk about it a bit
when we compare notes on yours.
Yeah, super cool.
This is so useful.
There's all these different times,
I really just want that text.
And in macOS, you hit Command + Shift + 4,
and you can select just a region of the screen.
You don't have to screenshot the whole screen,
which you'd get like the menu bar and like the navigation.
You can just say, I want this section
and it will grab that and then turn it into text,
which is just amazing.
I've used it for watching a video course
or some kind of presentation.
I'm like, I want that URL.
They said, go to the huge long URL,
just select, snap, paste the text of the URL and go.
and go, right? Yeah, exactly. It's so useful for those kinds of things. And you know, I do want to
add this was inspired by you mentioning TextSniper, I think on the Python Bytes podcast, right? And
TextSniper is a great app. And it's, you know, it's only like 10 bucks. So you should definitely
check it out. But I had already, when you mentioned that, I had already been working with,
with, it's playing around with the vision framework, which is the max,
ML powered, computer vision.
Yeah.
Right.
And so I've been playing around with that and I, and I knew that it would, it was
fairly easy to do this, you know, optical characterization, recognition
tech, you know, and grab the text from a picture.
So I thought, well, I bet you I can recreate that.
And I did play around a little bit to try to be able to actually draw the crosshairs
on the screen myself and let you do that.
And in Python, that was actually kind of hard to do.
But then it dawned on me, well, the Mac already comes with the ability to do that, the screenshot
app.
So now then I just had to figure out, okay, how do I grab that screen when it happens?
How do you know there was a screenshot and then how do you get the text?
It turns out that that's super easy to do.
If you tell the Mac, tell me when there's a new screenshot.
You set up a query that basically runs just like you would if you use spotlight on the
Mac and it runs in the background.
And anytime there's some new thing that matches your query, it lets you know and then it runs
your code.
Yeah.
That's amazing.
How easy it was to knock out.
the Vision Framework and some of the ML tools, they're probably using the neural engine that's
built into the latest chips as well. They're probably taking advantage of that.
Yeah, I'm sure they are. I've got an older MacBook and they run fine on there too, but
they're using the GPU on that. So it uses whatever hardware you have. And I'm sure if
you've got an M1 or one of the newer Macs, it's using the neural engine. And it's really
surprising how accurate it is and how fast it is.
They've done a really good job with that.
Yeah.
As we look at this, we'll also see people talk about, well,
Python's slow.
So how could you use Python to do this thing?
I mean, I think that's always a funny statement
to say Python is slow, because it's slow until it's
as fast as C or as fast as a rocket.
It lives in these weird bimodal worlds, right?
It's like really slowly all of a sudden, oh yeah, just as fast.
Yeah.
All right.
I, so me, you know, I've never found Python to be slow, but I guess it
depends what you're doing with it.
I'm, I'm not doing really big, heavy data crunching, but you know, just as in this
example, it's a Python app that's doing the text detection, but the text
detection is not running in Python.
That's running in Objective-C or Swift or whatever native language that Apple wrote it in.
And we're just calling that from Python.
So the only slow part of that is actually setting up that call, to translate between
Python types and Objective-C types and go back and forth.
and for, you know, there's a really great bridge for it called PyOBJC, which
is short for PyObjective-C.
Objective-C is one of the languages that has been around the Mac for a long time,
that Apple has used long time, though they're migrating a lot more to Swift now.
But PyOBJC does all that sort of translation across the bridge between Python and Objective-C.
So you don't, for the most part, don't really even really have to think about it.
Yeah, exactly.
So what you did is you basically saw there was a screenshot and you say, you know,
send that information off to the Objective-C platform layer,
and it just goes natively and does its thing, which is--
>>Exactly.
>>It's a pretty interesting bit of coordination.
You've got rumps coordinating, working with the menu bar API,
and you've got these various low-level OS platforms
that you're talking to through Pi Objective-C.
And yeah, we'll see how you built it up,
but there's a lot of neat moving pieces there.
So let's, I guess, start off first with,
let's start with Python on the Mac,
'cause I know you have some opinions on
how to get started there.
- Yeah.
So it's a good experience on the Mac,
but it does take a little bit of finagling, I think,
to get Python right.
And the first thing you gotta start with is,
hey, which Python do I put on, right?
And how do I install it?
There's a number of different ways.
There's a thing called Homebrew for the Mac, which
is a package manager that installs apps and command line
tools on the Mac.
And that's great.
If any kind of command line tool you need in the terminal,
Homebrew can install it pretty fast.
And so what I've seen is a lot of people
are tempted just to install Python that way.
Unfortunately, that can run into a number of different problems
because Homebrew also uses that same Python
to manage a lot of the other packages
and things that it's installing.
And so it might change that Python,
update it, change something, and you don't realize it,
and then now all of your stuff stops working.
So after a few false starts with that,
I decided just don't use the Homebrew Python for the Mac.
And what I recommend for most people
is just download it from python.org,
and you get the Mac installer, install it and run it.
I, because I develop a bunch of different
open source packages and want to test them
on different versions of Python,
I build my own Python and I use pyenv to manage that
and that way I can run a number of different versions of it.
Anaconda is also another great one for the Mac,
but you just, you really need to understand
sort of the ins and outs of which Python you picked
and what it's good for.
- Yeah.
So there's an article that you linked to
talking about this as homebrew Python is not for you,
speaking to you as a developer.
This was by Justin Mayer.
It's interesting that basically
fundamental problem that he talks about
is that homebrew might change the underlying Python version
even if you don't ask it to
'cause you might brew install,
I don't know, glances or some other thing that needs Python.
And then it goes, well, great, we got a good new Python
for that, right?
And that could potentially break your virtual environments,
which is not amazing.
Yeah.
Yeah, anyway, people can check this out and see what they think
about this.
Yeah, I recommend that you don't use Homebrew for developing.
Homebrew is great for everything.
I use it every day.
But if you want to develop Python, get your own Python,
that is only gonna get updated if you decide to update it.
- That makes a lot of sense.
You know, for me, I'm okay
if my virtual environments change,
I have a whole bunch of hotkeys and shortcuts and aliases
that I can just recreate, reset up those things.
So if something changed, I'll just drop into the terminal
and blow it away and recreate it.
But that's because I've been doing it for a long time.
I know a lot of people, whether or not
a virtual environment is active, where is Python,
what is installed, all those things
become very frustrating to people.
So this could help potentially avoid those troubles.
Out of curiosity, I did a brew list.
See what I got installed here.
Probably got about 120 different things installed.
So yeah, like Richie in the audience, which
says a brew is my go-to.
I'm there with it as well.
So the article, by the way, mentions this thing,
which I have not used, ASDF, which is,
I don't even know what to make of the name.
I mean, it's just like, I just,
just hit left fingers just go down
and this thing on my app, right?
But apparently this is about installing,
you can use this to install different tools
frameworks basically it's for CLI for managing different run times of Ruby and
Perl and there's a plugin for Python. Have you played with this?
I have not. It looks really cool but I've got my Mac to the point where it
works and I just don't mess with it.
Mine is so janky honestly just as a sidebar talking about this is I got this
this is a Mac mini M1 and I got it in or I ordered it right when it came out
basically or a week after.
And so I got it right away.
And many of the things that you would pip install,
or certainly brew install, it would say,
well, we don't have that for your platform.
And I'm like, ah.
It took about a month before I could reliably pip install
everything I needed, because the wheel didn't exist
for the ARM64 of whatever.
And so I've got the Intel version of brew put on here.
and then I've got the C++ tools for Apple Silicon.
And so when I try to do certain things that drop down
to the compiler, like pyenv, which I've tried,
I can't get it to work, there's some mispatch
about the compiler flags and what platform it thinks it's on.
I'm tempted to just reformat the whole computer now
that everything's stabilized.
But I am waiting until October, because if they
ship a new, much, much better one,
I might not even go through that process.
But yeah, yeah, I would love to use pie in V. I haven't been able to get it to work.
Maybe asdf is the thing to do.
I'll give it a try.
Yeah, maybe we're trying.
Certainly worth trying, I would say.
Now, that's great for creating and getting your Python there.
One of the things that first, one of the first things I guess that came to mind when I thought about what your app does, I'm like, Oh, oh, this is going to be really tricky.
because I can get, say, a little rumps app to run,
but when you really get down to it,
there's a lot of things about,
is it from a signed developer?
You know, what permissions does it request?
Like, does it request the VS server
or access your file system or, you know,
look at the clipboard,
all these different things can get a little bit tricky.
You want to talk about this permissions a bit?
- Yeah, sure.
And that's a tricky thing for every back app,
whether it's in Python or not.
Right.
And so there's a, I guess, you know, it's a good, good thing and a bad thing there from it, from a user's perspective, Apple's done a really good job locking down the computer in privacy, make sure that apps cannot access your data unless you explicitly allow them to access your data.
From a developer's perspective, that means apps can't access your data unless you explicitly allow it.
So you've got to keep that in mind as a developer,
that you've got to make sure that your app has the right permissions.
And so there's a couple of different ways to do that.
Every app that that's a dot app bundle that ships on the Mac has an info dot
P list, a property list file.
That's basically just a dictionary of key values and that tell the app,
you know, various settings for the app.
A couple of those things are permissions,
are entitlements that you need to request and say,
hey, I want my app to be able to do this.
For example, for Textinator,
one of the things it does is request access to the desktop.
And it'll pop up and then you can grant access
to the desktop.
But until then, it won't be able to see the desktop.
And I--
- Presumably because the default behavior
of taking a screenshot is to drop the file
onto the desktop.
So you need to be able to go hunt for those files, right?
Yeah. In fact, when I first got the first version of Texanator working, it wasn't doing that properly.
And so I was doing screens, taking screenshots and it never found them.
And because it was, it just couldn't see the disc that the screenshots were happening.
But, you know, the whole query system is smart enough to say, Hey, you're, you don't have permission to see the screenshot.
So I'm not even gonna tell you about them.
So it was never even getting alerted that it was getting a screenshot.
And so I had to get that sorted out.
And then if you can change the default location
of a screenshot and put it somewhere else.
And if you do that,
you actually have to go into the system settings,
add the privacy settings
and actually give Texanator full disk access
so that it can see where those screenshots are,
if they're outside of your home directory.
- Yeah, there is a screenshot application.
And if you run it, basically that's like your preferences
for, it's not just a hockey,
but you can go and change your preferences
for the screenshots.
- Yeah.
You can, there's a property list setting.
You can do it from the command line as well,
but yeah, the screenshot app is the easiest way to do that.
- Yeah.
Okay, so basically you go through the info.plist
and you just express, I need access to the disk,
or do you try to get there and then macOS says,
hey, this thing is trying to do it.
Do you want to let it--
- Yeah, so what I did in Textinator is one,
In the info.plist, what you actually put in there is the message that will get shown to
the user when they actually try to access the desktop or whatever it is that you're
trying to do.
Right.
And so what I have Textinator do is when it first fires up, it tries to access the desktop
to force that message to pop up so that you grant right away.
Otherwise, it'll never see the screenshots.
So that's an easy way to just, you know,
to force the user that way.
As soon as they start it,
you've already got their attention.
It'll pop up a dialogue box and say,
hey, Textinator wants to access the desktop,
allow, and then now it has access.
- I'm always suspicious of apps that pop up these little,
you know, enter your admin password.
- Yeah.
- For whatever reason, but they do it just out of the blue.
You know, it's one thing, like if I launch a new app
and it says, there's an update, do you want to update?
You say yes, and it'll pop up.
you're like, yep, this is it trying to update itself.
But if, you know, it's running it just behind the scenes,
doesn't update or something,
oh, we need your password.
You're like, hmm.
- Yeah, no.
(laughs)
- I don't know what's going on here.
So I think, anyway, the reason I bring this up
is I think it's a good idea to like,
as they're interacting with it,
just get those out of the way straight away.
- Yeah, exactly.
Otherwise, you're right.
Well, text editor, once, you know,
if it pops up later on and you'd forgotten all about it,
it does definitely look suspicious, so.
I'm a little unsure I should have gone in and installed this, but no, like if it's a
timely one, it's okay.
Yeah.
The other thing about installing apps is that they have to be signed.
You get this really scary when you try to open it, you'll get a really scary warning
saying, "Hey, this is signed by an unknown developer.
It'll destroy your computer.
Don't open."
And you actually have to right click and say open and then say, yes, I really want to open
this thing.
And you only have to do that once.
But the first time you do it, it does give you kind of a scary warning.
So you do need to know, hey, where is this code coming from that I'm going to try to
run?
So you built it with the ultimate, you built the app bundle with the Py2 app, right?
Yes, that's right.
Yeah.
I wonder if there's a way to sign, if you have a developer account, if there's a way
to sign that.
I think you could.
I don't have an Apple developer account.
that's something you have to pay for.
So I just, then I just tinker around, so I don't, I haven't bothered with that.
so I it's mine is self-signed, but yes, you can, or you could do it.
after the fact you could re-sign the app using the Apple, signing tools,
which you can run from the command line and then re-sign the app with
your developer signature, and you could even do that and notarize it as well.
Yeah.
Then it would, it would just run with no warning.
- It would just run, yeah.
- Yeah, because sometimes depending on how you run it,
it won't give you the option to run anyway.
Like if you click, if it's in the little download section
and you just pop up that little fan and you click it,
sometimes it'll just go, this is from an unknown developer,
we won't run it.
But if you right click and say run, it'll say,
oh, are you sure you want to run it?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, so it's, it can be annoying.
It can be a bit of a roadblock.
But what are you gonna do?
- Yeah, and that's something to keep in mind if you,
you know, a lot of things that Python developers do,
sometimes I know I do this,
is whip out a little tool to help a family member
or a friend or something, right?
And so if you're gonna send them something to run,
you've got to make sure you walk them through, okay?
You've got to right click and then say open,
and then click allow access to the desktop
or whatever it is that you're trying to do.
- Exactly, or if you're building this app for your club
or your kids football team or soccer team
or whatever, right?
Then you're handing it off to people
who don't necessarily know that it's trustworthy
or how to make it go,
but you kind of got to talk them through it.
It's probably if you have a developer account,
it probably would be cool to do.
I say that as somebody who has an Apple developer account
and a Rumps app and it's not signed.
So I should probably figure it out.
But in theory, I think it would be cool.
I'm intrigued on how I might go about doing that now.
- Yeah, I think it's, I don't think it's that hard.
I think you can just run the signing tools
and add your signature on there.
- Yeah, well, it just has to be trusted
from something that Apple trusts, right?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, so let's talk about Py2App real quick.
So to me, there's a bit of a danger
that I might get into some ranty sidetracks here in the show
but to me, I think it's a really,
a big hole in Python's capabilities.
let's put it that way, that there's not a way to say,
press a button or run a command,
and then I have a binary thing I give to people
that from their perspective is an application with an icon
that goes into their start menu or their dock,
that they click it and it comes out.
It does things, or they even just run the command line
and it does things, right?
The ability to send somebody an application
that was created with Python is super lacking
if they're not a developer on the other end receiving it
or not a server admin receiving it.
- Yeah, that's very true.
So, but I'll add one caveat to that, Michael.
If it's a command line tool,
what I found is I've defaulted now just to use PipX.
- Yes.
- If they brew and install PipX
and then they can PipX install and they're good to go.
And it's super easy and it just works.
And then inside the terminal, all your permissions are owned by the terminal.
So once you've granted the terminal access to your desktop or your photos or
whatever, any Python app you run.
We'll have access.
No problem.
So, but that's a good point.
But for a GUI app, yeah, it's, it's just way harder than it ought to be.
It is way harder not to be in.
I would love to see something built into Python.
I mean, right now it seems like the big focus of so many of the people doing high end work
on Python is about making it faster, do more, take more advantage of hardware.
And I would not say sidetrack that work, but once that's kind of done, the low hanging
fruit is how do I get a shippable thing?
Because after that, you start to open up things like, well, if I could send out a binary,
Maybe I could send out a binary for iOS or Android.
And then all of a sudden we have mobile.
And like, it just, it unlocks so much.
That said, what we have now are a couple of programs
and tools that will bundle up the Python runtime.
And we're just going to scratch the surface.
There's a bunch of attempts on this, like PyOxidizer,
which we won't touch on.
But if you're building a Mac app,
probably the way to go is PyJo app.
'Cause it's specifically about making macOS apps, right?
Yeah, I, I've used a PI installer for command line tools.
It'll bundle up a, basically it's a zip file with all your Python code
in it, that unzips at runtime and runs.
And then PI to app for GUI apps.
There's another one called beware, the beware project.
It's really trying to solve that problem of, Hey, I want to be able to run
on Android and iOS and Mac iOS and windows.
I've tried it a couple of times.
It looks really promising, but I keep running into problems and I
go back to Pi 2 app because I know how to make it work.
Yeah.
The briefcase project from, I think it's what it's called.
It's very interesting.
But I I'm holding out hope that they'll be able to solve some of these things.
They're, they seem to be doing a lot of work on it, but Pi 2 app, well, you run it
and it will create a, basically an app bundle, which is how apps
are distributed on your Mac.
One thing you'll notice if you go to the Texanator, the repo is that
there's a setup.py.
And on all my other projects,
I've switched to poetry and pyproject.toml.
- Okay.
- But I have not figured out how to make
Py2 app work with that.
So Py2 app needs a setup.py.
And so I use the setup.py
anytime I have to use Py2 app.
- Okay.
How cool.
I'm looking at your setup.py on the Textinator.
- Yeah. - Repo.
And you've got this options here.
And one of the things it has is icons, the various icons,
which for your app, you actually need all these different
sizes of icons, which is kind of a bit of a hassle,
but then you give that file and it makes that the right,
it does the right thing with it.
And then you also have a plist,
which has things like LS UI element is true,
or NS, these names, NS desktop folder usage description.
- That those things are-
- That's what you're talking about, right?
Yeah, those things in the plist settings there are the things that are going to go
into that info.plist for the app and Py2App will stick them in there.
The ls-ui element basically says, I want to run headless without being in the doc.
And so that's how the rumps apps works.
You'll get the little icon up in the status bar, but you won't see it in the doc.
And then the desktop folder usage description, that's the little message that
will pop up when Texinator tries to access the desktop
the first time.
- Right, okay, so this is the way,
one of the ways in which you configure the actual
creation of the Mac side of things,
not just the bundling of the Python.
- Exactly, so that stuff that, you know,
those settings there will actually go into the app
and Py2App will stick them in there.
- Well, I just wanna give a quick shout out
to this app here as well.
I've had to create these icon sets for different apps.
And there's this thing called the icon set studio
and you just give it one icon and it will,
it doesn't have very good reviews,
but it worked well for me.
- Yeah, it did.
- Yeah, so you know, there's that,
but you basically give it one large icon
and it'll create all the different variations
and one of those icon files and stuff for you.
So anyway, that's a pretty cool one.
All right, so,
- Py2 app, yeah, then you just give it a command line
to build your application, right?
- Yeah, you run Py2 app and it will create,
it'll take reading your setup.py,
read in all the files associated with your app
and then bundle it up into the app file.
- Yeah, it takes a little bit of time
and then there's a build and a dist folder
And miraculously, it's really delightful actually.
In the dist folder, I think it is,
there's a, whatever you call your application.app.
It has the icon, it looks like an app thing.
You can drag it to your applications folder.
You can put it in the dock, if it's that kind of app.
But for the rumps one, I'm not sure.
It makes a lot of sense to actually put it in the dock,
but it's as much an app as far as macOS is concerned
as all the other ones, right?
Exactly, yeah, it's a native app and it'll run.
And yeah, for something like Textinator,
I just put it in the applications folder
and then add it to the startup items or my login items
so that it just starts running when I log into the computer.
One thing to keep in mind is you might be tempted,
you get that first time you build it,
that app in your dist folder.
If you run that, at least for Textinator, it won't work
because it, that version of the app won't have the permissions to see your desktop.
So, because it's got it, I guess the privacy settings are going to look at,
Hey, which app and in which signature was signed, and it's going to look for, Hey,
that version of it's got permission.
that also means that if you upgrade a textinator, you've got to, you may
have to go back into your settings and give it permission again.
Okay.
Yeah, permissions are always tricky.
- Yeah.
- But, very cool.
My experience is this has worked and it's been really nice.
You can build .app files and it's like those smart bundles,
right, they're really folders,
but they look like a single file.
And yeah, it's a great way to hand out.
I do, I don't know if I agreed sufficiently enthusiastically
with you, but PIPX is absolutely the way to hand out
out command line tools these days.
People can get PipX by just brew installing it,
which brings in Python that PipX needs.
So that already is set.
Then if you just type PipX, like for example,
PipX install PLS, right?
For example, that's a really nice one.
LS replacement.
I think I've talked about it before,
but it's like sort of a developer focused LS type
of experience and you can get like little icons
like for readmes or license files or whatever.
But if you want this, you could go through the way
of setting up and running on Python,
or you could just PIPX install PLS or Glances
or HTTP, HTTP, HTTP, right?
These, all of those things should just come in with PIPX.
They get automatically upgraded if you ask for it.
There's a lot of good stuff going on there.
But if you need to hand out an executable thing
for Mac people, this PI2 app is really nice.
- Yeah, it works great.
There's a few quirks to get it set up.
Like you have to use the setup.py
and you have to make sure you get the right things
in that plist dictionary.
But once you figure those out, it's super easy.
- It's also, I guess, worth pointing out,
there's a Pi 2 EXE for doing this for Windows folks, right?
Windows people are like,
well, the Pi 2 app doesn't do me any good,
but there's a Pi 2 EXE and maybe more broadly,
there's Pi Installer.
And honestly, I don't have enough experience
between Pi 2 EXE versus Pi Installer,
which also make Windows apps to say
which you should choose,
but Pi Installer has been pretty solid too.
- Yeah, I use Pi Installer for a different project of mine.
It's a command line tool and it works great.
and I've got to build the, that one, I think that it doesn't
stop pine installer, doesn't sign it.
the PI to apples automatically signs it.
So you'll have to sign it yourself, whether you use an ad hoc
signature or a developer signature.
but you can do that.
I just have a shell script that does that for me.
Okay.
Interesting.
I've used PI installer for GUI.
Have you checked out GUI?
- G-O-O-E-Y?
- I have, yeah.
- Yeah, yeah.
I don't know what to make of it.
It's super interesting.
And it lets you take any command line tool
and turn it into, well, as the name says, like a GUI,
where it takes the command line arguments
and turns them into widget inputs.
Like a file might be a browse for a new file
or a yes or no might be a check on or off type thing.
What's your thoughts on GUI?
I think for simple CLIs, it's a great tool.
I've never, I haven't used it, but I have played around with it a little bit.
And it's definitely less scary, I guess, in the command line for users that aren't
really comfortable in the command line.
I have one app that I, a command line app that I use PyInstaller for that is fairly
complex, it's got over 150 command line options and it's a beast.
So something like that would not work.
I actually tried it 'cause I was just curious
to see how it would work and it just, it kind of blew up.
- But it wasn't happening.
- It wasn't, yeah, it's just like,
nope, not gonna do this.
- Gonna need a lot of tabs, a lot of tabs, please.
- For your simple command line apps,
I think it's super useful.
- Yeah, because I'm sure a lot of listeners are like,
it'd be fantastic to build a little Python app
that just does a thing that my coworkers need
instead of some manual process that they do.
but then soon as you start to say,
and then you open up terminal and you start to type,
it's just like, nope.
>> Yeah.
>> But if you give them a GUI, it's pretty nice.
>> One thing I would love to see,
and since we can't do an episode without mentioning Wilma Coogan,
is a TUI version of GUI that would just automatically create
a TUI interface for you from your command line app.
>> Yeah, you're right. We can't do a show without mentioning him.
The textual stuff, it's coming along.
Yeah, it's really impressive what he's been doing.
So I have a couple of projects in mind
that when I have to actually sit down and have time
to learn textual a little bit that I would love to play
around with.
Absolutely.
I think it would be--
you're right that that would be a pretty nice way to--
>> It's a more terminal native way of going.
All right, we're going to build this UI for you,
but here's how you get to it.
But the one that you and I both use to create apps,
real and the one that you've gone to
create Textinator with is RUMS,
which stands for ridiculously uncomplicated
macOS Python status bar apps.
But that's probably the most complicated thing about RUMS,
is its name, right? Like it's amazing to use.
Yeah. So rumps does all the heavy lifting of creating the
status bar app, which you can see if you're watching the video
on the screen there, you get, you get a, either, you know,
your name of your app or an icon in this, in the status bar, and
then you can click on it and you get some menus. And so it, and
you can do that in, I don't know, like 10 lines of code
with RUMS, it's just ridiculously easy.
- The name is accurate, right?
It is ridiculously uncomplicated.
As you point out, so they've got like a hello world
type of thing that has four options on the menu bar.
You know, when you click on the thing in the menu bar,
it drops down to four options.
And one of the things that it does
is also post a toast notification,
you know, native macOS notification as well.
And in order to make that happen,
that really is like 10 lines of Python.
Simple, right? - Exactly.
Yeah, it's super simple.
So that notification code isn't really hard to do,
but you'd have to set it up.
You'd have to set up a notification handler
and register it.
It's quite several steps to do that.
And Rumps does it, you just one line,
rumps.notification, and boom,
you can post a notification.
- So the basic idea is you create a class.
It derives from rumps.apps.
And then you use a bunch of decorators like clicked
to say when a menu item is selected.
And then there's a few other calls you can do.
You can say rumps.alert and that pops out the notification.
You can say rumps.notification.
I guess that doesn't pop it out.
Sorry, that's like a modal dialogue.
You can say rumps.notification and it pops out the toast.
And then you just say app.run.
And that's pretty much it, right?
- Yeah.
- And you've got a full-blown native Mac app
written in Python that's up and running.
- Yep.
The one missing element,
which we've already given people the key to,
is this is still just a .py file.
And if you try to give this to your friends
or distribute it on the internet,
it's gonna go very badly, right?
There's no app bundle,
there's no .app file package thing.
There's no Python runtime, right?
And so that's why you need Py2App
is you take your Rumped app and then you Py2App it,
and then you have something to give out, right?
- Exactly, and once they get that,
they don't even need Python on their machine
'cause it comes bundled with that.
And so it's really nice.
It actually, Py2App will bundle up your Python
and all the libraries packages you need in the app folder
so that it's got its own copy.
How do you make it auto start with system start?
And I asked that as somebody who created a Rumps app
and it is clearly auto starting.
I just don't remember how I did it.
I know that you can like--
- I don't know how to do it automatically,
but if you go to your system settings
and go to your login items, you can add it there, right?
So it's a couple extra steps that you've got to do
as the user and just say,
you click the plus next to your login items
and it'll pop up a file dialog and you can pick the your app to run and run that when you log in.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure that that's what I did to get it to auto start. I was just wondering if there might be some other clever way, but probably not. Right?
Yeah, I've seen I know it's possible for an app to do that. I've because I have apps that you run them in it says, Hey, do you want me to run it? Log in? Yes. And it does it. And so I just have not explored doing that myself,
because that's not something I'm doing all the time,
but there probably is a way,
whether you can do that from Python
or if the permissionals will work, I'm not really sure,
but it might be something worth looking into, yeah.
- Yeah, you know, this rumps project is super cool,
but it feels like it's not quite
super active these days, right?
- Yeah, that is one downside.
There's a fair amount of activity on the repo, but if you look at the issues,
there's a number of issues have been open a long time or PRs that haven't been
merged in and it doesn't run on Python 3.10, for example.
So you'll need to install Python 3.9 or earlier to use it.
So there, you know, there's a, there are a few you know, just downsides to it,
but it's a, you know, it's a great app and I hope that it continues to get a
a little bit of love because it really is super useful.
- It really is useful.
I totally agree.
And I'm just thinking, you know,
there could be like a startup set some preferences, right?
Where you just say,
I would like to request to run at startup.
You know, if that's permission that already set,
then just set it through whatever objective COS level thing
you've got to do.
Like there's just little things like that,
that would be really, really nice.
You know, the mini bar,
the little drop downs, to be able to associate a hotkey with them.
There's just a few things like dividers in menus.
There's just these, they seem like such a low hanging fruit
that I think this could get a big upgrade.
It's pretty popular, it has 2.8 thousand stars,
but not a ton of traffic recently.
It'd be awesome if people,
either Jared KS who originally created it keeps going,
or if they've lost interest, then someone else
could pick it up and run with it.
That'd be fun.
- Yeah, definitely.
- Oh, Richie on the audience says,
"Creating the plist to execute your script
is just having it in a tilde library launch agents."
So maybe if you just copy a script
to start your app over to there and it just launches.
That's great. - Okay.
Yeah, I'm looking at it.
you'll have to request access to the library folder as well.
So I'll have to look into that,
but I've done that before,
the old fashioned way of actually creating a plist by hand
and sticking it in there to get something to start.
So thanks, Ricky, I'll take a look at that.
- Yeah, that's excellent advice.
This is in your user profile,
so maybe you don't have to ask, but maybe you do.
All right, so rumps,
very important building block here for Textinator.
Pi to app also super important.
By the way, the one that I create is called URLify
and it just does a bunch of stuff like,
creates URL slugs and like transforms text.
So I ended up doing all that.
That's my little app.
So the one, we've got the ability
to build the app with pi to app.
We've got a way to kind of create a shell
that runs in the menu bar
and constantly runs in the background.
which is, you know, as long as nobody closes the app, right?
It's just out of the way.
So that's really fantastic.
And now you need to start working with some of the OS level APIs.
Like you talked about hooking the event for the screenshot,
and those are Objective-C type things, right?
Exactly. Yeah.
And so for those, I use pyobjc, pyObjective-C,
which is a bridge between Python and Objective-C.
And it's an amazing package.
And if you're a Python programmer and you use a Mac,
you really ought to get familiar with PyOBJC,
because what that does is exposes everything
that Apple's built in, all the native capabilities
like vision and machine learning.
The most recent update to Textinator,
I added QR code detection.
So if you screenshot a QR code, it'll
tell you what the URL is.
- Oh, wow. Decode the QR code.
- Decode the QR code and stick it on your clipboard.
- Nice.
- But all that's built in to the Apple frameworks and PyOBJC gives you access
to call those, you know, fairly easily.
There are some quirks to it because Objective-C itself is kind of a quirky
language and so you've got to do the translation between Python and Objective-C.
You'll see a lot of camel case that you don't normally
see in Python.
But once you figure those things out, it's super useful.
Yeah, there's no attempt to Pythonify or make Objective-C,
like the low-level runtime supporting classes,
to make them Pythonic.
Yeah, and actually, I'm glad.
Because when you have to go Google,
what does this function do?
Or what's this NS file handle and how do I use it?
It's a lot easier if you can just cut and paste.
- Yeah, for sure.
One of the things I just,
I'm looking at some of these examples,
maybe there's some hints in here,
but what are the things that's super odd to me
about Objective-C?
It is one of those languages,
I'm like, I'm gonna try to learn this
and after a while I'm like, no, no, it's just too weird.
And how you have these named,
these really oddly named methods and then variables, right?
Like you can't just say string lower,
you've got to get like, you know,
I forget what the API is called,
but there's like a weird set of incantations
to sort of invoke a lowercase type of behavior.
So how does that, is this, I see like in the example here,
It looks like there's a string specifying maybe one
of the arguments or something, like file handle read
completed colon is one of the strings.
Yeah.
So the way--
What's the deal with that?
Yeah, this one, I'm not super familiar with this notification
center API.
But looking at what you have on the screen there,
you've got the notification center dot ad observer
underscore selector underscore name underscore object
underscore, which if you use high objective C,
you're going to see a lot of underscores like that,
including the trailing underscore.
And what that does is the way Objective-C works,
and let me caveat, I am not an Objective-C programmer.
I tried a couple of times to learn,
and it just did not grok it.
But I've gotten pretty good at interpreting Objective-C
through the Python lens so that I can use it in Python,
because I've got quite a few Python apps that
use Objective-C calls.
So Objective-C has this concept of selectors,
which are basically sending messages to an object
to call specific functions on that object.
- Oh, I see.
- And a method on an object
could have different signatures.
And so you might sometimes call it
with a different value or different number of parameters
than you would a different time.
And so the selector is handled doing that.
And so what this is doing is each of those underscores
is think of it as every time you see an underscore
in a PI objective C method call,
you need to have a variable,
you need to have an argument to that method call
because it's passing that selector,
the value that you want for that particular selector.
So that's why there's four underscores
in this example you've got on the screen
and then four different values
you're passing in, arguments you're passing in.
- So if I say add observer underscore selector,
underscore name, underscore object,
I've got to give it the selector, the name of the object,
and also itself.
- And if you went and looked that up on the Apple Docs,
instead of underscores, you'd see colons.
So you'd see add observer, colon selector,
colon name, colon object.
And so that's the decoder ring there,
if you're trying to translate to Python,
is replace the colons with underscores
and then add a trailing underscore.
And then you got to figure out, okay, well,
For that number of arguments, what are those arguments
and what type do they need to be?
- Very interesting.
Okay, so it's weird, but it's kind of weird
in the sense of just it's mirroring Objective-C,
which is itself a bit of a unique language.
But that said, this is a cool library
that gives you direct access
to much of the operating system, right?
- Yeah, exactly.
So, you know, Apple has built some really great frameworks
like the vision, right, that does the text detection
for text data, which literally takes a few lines.
And you can get--
- Yeah, tell us really quick about like this vision one.
Sorry, cutting you off.
Tell us quick about the vision one here,
just 'cause this is one of the core building blocks
you used, right?
- Exactly, yeah.
So vision does a number of different
computer vision type tasks for you.
And really only takes a few lines.
It does text detection, find barcodes or QR codes.
It'll find faces in an image, detect different objects
and images, those kinds of things.
And it does it really well.
It runs on the neural engine, as you
said at the beginning of the show.
So it's super fast.
And you get access to that all from Python.
If you use Objective-C, you can directly
access that power with just a handful of lines of code.
And there are a number of Python packages for doing that.
There's several different Python image to text packages
out there, for example,
but they're all fairly compute intensive
or you've got to download these big models or whatever.
And if you're on a Mac,
you can just use them what's already built into your Mac.
- Yeah, absolutely.
And so for example, in Textinator,
you just say vision.vn recognize text request,
in that with completion handler,
you give it the callback.
So one thing you'll notice, you skip past it,
there was an alloc and then an init,
and it's something you've got to do in Objective-C,
you've got to allocate your memory.
And then there's a whole memory management piece of this
you've got to keep in mind.
For the most part, PyOBJC handles that for you,
but every now and then it can bite you
if you have got a,
you're allocating a bunch of things
and never deallocating them.
You can't have a memory of that.
- Back to memory.
- Yeah.
- Okay.
- Something you normally don't have to think about
in Python.
- Yeah, and then maybe some of the other,
you've got the natural language ML APIs as well, right?
- Yeah, there's natural language processing built in.
You know, all the things that the Mac does
to do all those neat Mac things are,
for the most part,
available to the developer through these frameworks.
- Oh, excellent.
All right, very cool.
Yeah, I guess that's probably it for the building blocks and stuff.
Now that you've got this built, would you have done anything different or are you happy
with the way it's come together?
I think I've been pretty happy with the way it came together.
It works pretty good.
The most current version will immediately ask for desktop access like we were talking
about that. I didn't do that in the first version. I put up, I left it up to the user
to go add that manually. But when I realized, hey, the default location for screenshots
is the desktop and 99% of people are going to have it there. Let's just ask right away
for the desktop access and then it just works out of the box. But yeah, again, it was a
fun little project. The initial version took a weekend and it's grown a little bit since
but the whole thing is still only about 500 lines of code.
And it's a fully functional, useful app that I use every day.
And so it was really fun to be able to build that in Python.
There's something very satisfying about having
your app do the thing, you know, right?
You can, of course, download-- everyone downloads apps
from the App Store and various places.
But to go, but that's my code writing.
My thing caught that text out of there, or whatever it is,
right?
Yeah, exactly.
- Yeah, excellent.
So I hope this is an inspiration as well as a roadmap
for people that want to build interesting things
for maybe for themselves,
but also for end users in Python on the Mac, right?
Rumps, if you want a menu bar app,
PyObjective-C to get access to the framework and platform,
Py2App to build it in a way that you can hand it out.
Very cool.
- Yeah, a few basic building blocks
and you can put something pretty slick together
fairly quickly.
- Yeah, I totally agree.
I have the little one that I built with Rumps
came together surprisingly well
and it does way less than what yours does.
I'm really impressed with yours, it's great.
- I've got another, yeah, another Rumps one
that I use every day that all it does
is tell me when to plug in or unplug my laptop,
just to try to keep the battery percentage good
and it has an icon of a plug and it changes color
depending on whether I should plug in,
it's charging or discharging,
and whether I should, you know,
and then it pops up an alert to say,
plug in your laptop now.
It's super simple, but really useful.
- Absolutely, keep it in the range,
not always 100% charged, but don't let it go dead, yeah.
Yeah, that's super simple.
Those kinds of things are really easy to write with RUMPS
and the various tools we talked about,
So definitely, definitely check that out.
All right, well, I think we are out of time,
but super cool work on Textinator.
And like I said, a great roadmap for people to follow
if they want to build things like that.
So, Rhett, before we get out of here, final two questions.
If you're going to work on Textinator
or other Python things, what editor are you using these days?
- I use VS Code.
- Right on.
Extensions, plugins that you're a fan of,
Obviously Python, if you don't hate yourself
and want to do this on your own.
- Yeah, so I use a couple, I use GitHub Copilot,
which I really enjoy.
It is a solo hobbyist developer
who only gets a few hours a week to write code.
It's really, it's kind of like having a peer programmer
and it's really helpful.
And then--
- A knowledgeable friend, you're like,
how do you connect SQLAlchemy to a database again?
And it goes, boom.
Yeah, it just does it for you.
It's really useful.
And the other one that I really like is GitLens.
Yeah, GitLens is cool.
Yeah, you can sort of--
it'll put the Git history sort of--
Yeah, what--
Right in line with the code.
And you can see what changed and when.
And I was using that yesterday to try to debug a problem
and find when did I change this code.
And yeah, it's really--
that was really useful.
Yeah, I was looking at the CPython source code with VS Code
and I had GitLens installed
and I was going through some section
and I saw this change from like 1994 from Guido.
And why that line was changed.
I'm like, okay, this is like a bit of archeology
or some history going on here, you know?
- Yeah, that's neat.
- Yeah, very neat.
Okay, well, definitely a good choice there.
And then a notable PyPI package.
I mean, rumps is an obvious choice,
but if you got something else that you want to throw out,
go for it.
- Yeah, well, let me, I've got two for you.
One, if we talked about PyOVJC,
if you're a Mac developer or you're a Python developer
who uses a Mac, definitely take the time to learn that
'cause it'll give you, you know,
give your Python superpowers.
And then the other one, completely unrelated,
that I really like is called TextX.
And it's basically a parser generator for Python.
It's a peg, creates a parsing expression grammar for you
out of its own little modeling language.
But basically, if you find that you're
writing more than two regexes to parse some code,
TextX might be able to help you out,
because it will build a parser for you out
of its own specification language that then gives you
a Python class that parses your text for you.
And I've used it in some other projects
actually create my own language to solve a specific domain problem.
>> Yeah.
>> It's super useful.
It's fairly easy to create a fairly powerful parser.
>> When I hear I don't have to write
regular expressions that already makes me happy.
>> Yeah.
>> It's great. Their description here is,
in a nutshell, TextX will help you build a textual language in an easy way.
You could invent your own language or build support for an already existing one.
That's sounds fantastic. Yeah, great recommendation.
Alright, well. Final call to action before we go. People are
interested maybe in building apps Mac apps for the pipe with
Python and abroad sense. But what advice you got for it? Say
learn PIO BJC play with rumps and and pie to app and go.
There's a lot of great projects already out there on GitHub. Go
look at the textinator source code or search from some others.
And I think, for me, the easiest way to get started
is always to look at what somebody else has done
than reading through a whole bunch of docs.
And so I'd say go find a project that piques your interest
and go build something for your Mac.
Yeah, absolutely.
All right, well, it's been great to get
a look inside what you're doing with this app
and how you built it for Mac, and also a bit of a peek
inside the Space Force.
So thanks for being here.
Great, yeah.
Thanks, Michael.
You all have fun.
You bet.
Bye.